install po3way and a few other admin notes (#23)
r-devel/translations: web/Weblate-server.qmd

Weblate will provide a suggestion on how to fix, but in short:

1. SSH to the Weblate server
2. Make a backup on the Git repo before messing with the rebase process:

    ```sh
    tar -zcvf /root/base-r-gui-repo-$(date '+%Y-%m-%d').tar.gz \
      /var/lib/docker/volumes/weblate-docker_weblate-data/_data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui
    ```

3. Attach the Docker container:

    ```sh

>     sudo docker exec -ti weblate-docker_weblate_1 bash

Reviewer: where does the Dockerfile for this live BTW?

Author: it's the standard `weblate` img as per https://contributor.r-project.org/translations/Weblate-server.html#docker-images-and-configuration

Author: we could create our own based on this and preinstall things .. once we know what is required :)

Reviewer: Got it, hopefully the above will tip that off to future readers.

    ```

4. Enter the git folder:

    ```sh
    cd app/data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui
    ```

    When looking for this folder outside of Docker, you can find it at

    ```
    /var/lib/docker/volumes/weblate-docker_weblate-data/_data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui
    ```

5. Pull from SVN and start the rebase process to see the actual errors:

    ```sh
    git svn fetch
    git svn rebase
    ```

6. Optionally, if not yet done, install [helpers](https://github.com/JulienPalard/po3way) to make it easier to deal with the git conflicts (inside Docker):

   ```sh
   pip install po3way
   ```

   Then add this folder to `$PATH` or symlink it, e.g. starting Docker as root:

   ```sh
   $ sudo docker exec -u root -ti weblate-docker_weblate_1 bash
   # ln -s /home/weblate/.local/bin/po3way /bin/po3way
   ```

   With the regular `weblate` user inside Docker, edit `.git/config` at `app/data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui` to add:

    ```sh
    [merge "po3way"]
        name = po file merge driver
        driver = po3way --git-merge-driver -- %A %O %B
    ```

    Also edit `.gitattributes` to include:

    ```sh

>     *.po merge=po3way

Reviewer: .pot too?

Weblate will provide a suggestion on how to fix, but in short:

1. SSH to the Weblate server
2. Make a backup on the Git repo before messing with the rebase process:

    ```sh
    tar -zcvf /root/base-r-gui-repo-$(date '+%Y-%m-%d').tar.gz \
      /var/lib/docker/volumes/weblate-docker_weblate-data/_data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui
    ```

> 3. Attach the Docker container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Attach the Docker container (this image is offered by `weblate`):
```

    ```sh
    sudo docker exec -ti weblate-docker_weblate_1 bash
    ```

> 4. Enter the git folder:

Reviewer: I would usually write the numbering as:

```
1. first item
1. second item
1. third item
```

Then markdown handles the numbering. Saves from having to re-number items like here when something gets added. I'm just not sure if `.qmd` will support it properly, any idea?

Reviewer: GH preview of the edit with all `1.` didn't show anything, I think we have to check on the output wiki whether it translates. Let's test that out in a follow-up.

Reviewer: #24

    ```sh
    cd app/data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui
    ```

>     When looking for this folder outside of Docker, you can find it at

Reviewer: this is the same folder referenced in item 2 above right?

Author: yes

Reviewer: OK, reiterated that for clarity

    ```
    /var/lib/docker/volumes/weblate-docker_weblate-data/_data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui
    ```

5. Pull from SVN and start the rebase process to see the actual errors:

    ```sh
    git svn fetch
    git svn rebase
    ```

> 6. Optionally, if not yet done, install [helpers](https://github.com/JulienPalard/po3way) to make it easier to deal with the git conflicts (inside Docker):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Optionally, if the rebase step fails, install [helpers](https://github.com/JulienPalard/po3way) to make it easier to deal with the git conflicts (inside Docker):
```

Author: here I tried to refer to the fact that these steps might not be needed, as already installed inside the Docker container. but when we update Weblate, a new Docker container will be created from a new Doker img, so the manual installs will be gone. so these steps are only required once after each update. could you pls help rephrase this? feel free to do direct edits :)

Reviewer: I see, I misunderstood. Hopefully the new wording is good enough for future me :)

   ```sh
   pip install po3way
   ```

>    Then add this folder to `$PATH` or symlink it, e.g. starting Docker as root:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Then add `/home/weblate/.local/bin` to `$PATH` or symlink it, e.g. starting Docker as root:
```

wasn't sure what "this" meant

   ```sh
   $ sudo docker exec -u root -ti weblate-docker_weblate_1 bash
   # ln -s /home/weblate/.local/bin/po3way /bin/po3way
   ```

>    With the regular `weblate` user inside Docker, edit `.git/config` at `app/data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui` to add:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   With the regular `weblate` user (i.e., no longer as `root`) inside Docker, edit `.git/config` at `app/data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui` to add:
```

    git rebase --continue
    ```

>     I usually do the `git` commands inside Docker (at `app/data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui`), and the edits outside of Docker (at `/var/lib/docker/volumes/weblate-docker_weblate-data/_data/vcs/r-project/base-r-gui`) as it's more comfortable, but feel free to install anything that makes your life easier even within Docker (see e.g. `po3way` above).

Reviewer: > install anything

IIUC that requires attaching with `-u root` is that right? Might be worth emphasizing if so.

Author: yeah, I thought that the `po3way` example reference might be enough .. but you are right, better to be explicit :+1:
